Add customize precompile (#593)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/customize-precompile.md

---
title: "How to customize your Orbit chain's precompile"

> sidebar_label: "Customize your chain's prcompile"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Customize your chain's precompile"
```

description: "Learn how (and when) to customize your Orbit chain's precompile"
author: jasonwan
sidebar_position: 2
---

import PublicPreviewBannerPartial from '../partials/_orbit-public-preview-banner-partial.md';

<PublicPreviewBannerPartial />

import UnderConstructionPartial from '../../partials/_under-construction-banner-partial.md';

<UnderConstructionPartial />

> There are 2 ways to customize your own precompile, first is to add your method logic to existing [precompile](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/tree/97cfbe00ff0eea4d7f5f5f3afb01598c19ddabc4/src/precompiles), second is to create a new precompile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 2 ways to customize your own precompile:

 1. Add your method logic to an existing [precompile](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/tree/97cfbe00ff0eea4d7f5f5f3afb01598c19ddabc4/src/precompiles).
 2. Create a new precompile.
```

> ### Prepare work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

Get nitro:

```shell
git clone <https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro.git>
cd nitro
git submodule update --init --recursive --force
```

### Add methods to existing precompile:

> First you need to go to [precompiles/](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/tree/master/precompiles), and vi one of the existing precompile (let’s use ArbSys.sol as an example), then `vi ArbSys.go`, now we can add a simple `SayHi` to it:

Author: Sure, we can change it to the sentence you mentioned

```solidity
function sayHi() external view returns(string memory);
```

Now we can build the nitro by following [this](https://docs.arbitrum.io/node-running/how-tos/build-nitro-locally) docs. (Note if you have already built the docker image, you still need run last step to build again)
Run nitro following this [guide](https://docs.arbitrum.io/node-running/how-tos/running-a-full-node#putting-it-all-together).

When it is ready, we can call our new `ArbSys.sol`.

#### Use curl to make call directly

```shell
curl Your_IP_Address:8547\
-X POST \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{"method":"eth_call","params":[{"from":null,"to":"0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000064","data":"0x0c49c36c"}, "latest"],"id":1,"jsonrpc":"2.0"}'
```

You can now see:

```
{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":1,"result":"0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000026869000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"}
```

> Which the `0x6869` is the hexify utf8 decode of `hi`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, `0x0c49c36c` is the hex-encoded, utf8 representation of `hi`.
```

> #### Use foundry `cast call`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Call your function using Foundry's `cast call`
```

```
cast call 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000064 "sayHi()(string)”
```

> You can now see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see something like this:
```

```
hi
```

### Create a new precompile

> First you need to go to [precompiles/](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/tree/master/precompiles) , and create a new precompile (let’s use ArbSys.sol as an example), we named ArbHi: `vi ArbHi.go`, and give it address `0x11a` for examples, like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, navigate to the [`precompiles/` directory](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/tree/master/precompiles) and create a new precompile 
called `ArbSys.sol`.  We'll define a new method, and we'll give it an address:
```

```go
package precompiles

// ArbGasInfo provides insight into the cost of using the rollup.
type ArbHi struct {

> 	Address addr // 0x11a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	Address addr // 0x11a, for example
```

}

func (con *ArbHi) SayHi(c ctx, evm mech) (string, error) {
	return "hi", nil
}
```

> Then edit [precompile.go](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/master/precompiles/precompile.go), we need to register the new precompile under method `Precompiles()`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, update [precompile.go](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/master/precompiles/precompile.go) to register the new precompile under the `Precompiles()` method:
```

```go

> insert(MakePrecompile(templates.ArbHiMetaData, &ArbHi{Address: hex("11a")})) // You can set it to other address, we sue 0x011a here as an example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
insert(MakePrecompile(templates.ArbHiMetaData, &ArbHi{Address: hex("11a")})) // 0x011a here is an example address
```

```

> Go to [contracts/src/precompiles/](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/tree/97cfbe00ff0eea4d7f5f5f3afb01598c19ddabc4/src/precompiles) and create `ArbHi.sol`, we can add the related interface to it (you need to make sure their method/contract name are same):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to [contracts/src/precompiles/](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/tree/97cfbe00ff0eea4d7f5f5f3afb01598c19ddabc4/src/precompiles) and create `ArbHi.sol`. We'll specify the corresponding interface here. Ensure that the method name on the interface matches the name of the function you introduced in the previous step, `camelCased`:
```

```solidity
pragma solidity >=0.4.21 <0.9.0;

/// @title Say hi.
/// @notice just for test
/// Precompiled contract that exists in every Arbitrum chain at 0x000000000000000000000000000000000000011a.
interface ArbHi {
    function sayHi() external view returns(string memory);
}
```

> Now we can build the nitro by following [this](https://docs.arbitrum.io/node-running/how-tos/build-nitro-locally) docs. (Note if you have already built the docker image, you still need run last step to build again).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, build Nitro by following the instructions in [How to build Nitro locally](/node-running/how-tos/build-nitro-locally). Note that if you've already built the Docker image, you still need run the last step to rebuild.

Run Nitro by following the instructions in [How to run a full node](/node-running/how-tos/running-a-full-node#putting-it-all-together).
```

> When it is ready, we can call our new `ArbHi.sol`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your node is running, you can call `ArbSys.sol` either directly using `curl`, or through Foundry's `cast call`.
```

How do you feel about adding a "Call your precompile" H2 section as the last section, below the two "Option" H2s to minimize duplication?

---
title: "How to customize your Orbit chain's precompiles"
sidebar_label: "Customize your chain's precompiles"
description: "Learn how (and when) to customize your Orbit chain's precompiles"
author: jasonwan
sidebar_position: 2
---

import PublicPreviewBannerPartial from '../partials/_orbit-public-preview-banner-partial.md';

<PublicPreviewBannerPartial />

import UnderConstructionPartial from '../../partials/_under-construction-banner-partial.md';

<UnderConstructionPartial />

There are two ways to customize your chain's precompiles:

1.  Add new methods to to an existing [precompile](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/tree/97cfbe00ff0eea4d7f5f5f3afb01598c19ddabc4/src/precompiles).
2.  Create a new precompile.

### Prerequisites

Clone the Nitro repository before you begin:

```shell

> git clone <https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro.git>

Reviewer 2: Since this is related to Orbit chains, it might be good to download the latest orbit-ready nitro branch/tag. The parameter for doing that is --branch, or -b, iirc.

cd nitro
git submodule update --init --recursive --force
```

## Option 1: Add new methods to an existing precompile

> Using your favorite code editor, open an existing precompile from the [precompiles/](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/tree/master/precompiles) directory. We'll use `ArbSys.sol` as an example. Open the the corresponding `go` file (`ArbSys.go`) and add a simple `SayHi` method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using your favorite code editor, open the implementation file of an existing precompile from the [precompiles/](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/tree/master/precompiles) directory. We'll use `ArbSys.sol` as an example. Open the the corresponding `go` file (`ArbSys.go`) and add a simple `SayHi` method:
```

In the precompiles reference page, we talk about the "go implementation file" and the "solidity interface file" to make a distinction between both assets, so it is more clear for the user. I've added one potential example if you want to use the same language.

Reviewer: Love this - thank you

```go
func (con *ArbSys) SayHi(c ctx, evm mech) (string, error) {
	return "hi", nil
}
```

> Then, open the corresponding Solidity file (`ArbSys.sol`) from the [contracts/src/precompiles/](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/tree/97cfbe00ff0eea4d7f5f5f3afb01598c19ddabc4/src/precompiles) directory and add the required interface. Ensure that the method name on the interface matches the name of the function you introduced in the previous step, `camelCased`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, open the corresponding Solidity interface file (`ArbSys.sol`) from the [contracts/src/precompiles/](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/tree/97cfbe00ff0eea4d7f5f5f3afb01598c19ddabc4/src/precompiles) directory and add the required interface. Ensure that the method name on the interface matches the name of the function you introduced in the previous step, `camelCased`:
```

(Following latest comment)

```solidity
function sayHi() external view returns(string memory);
```

> Next, build Nitro by following the instructions in [How to build Nitro locally](/node-running/how-tos/build-nitro-locally). Note that if you've already built the Docker image, you still need run the last step to rebuild.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, build Nitro by following steps 3-7 of the instructions in [How to build Nitro locally](/node-running/how-tos/build-nitro-locally). Note that if you've already built the Docker image, you still need run the last step to rebuild.
```

Adding the steps just in case, to prevent them for cloning nitro again .

> Run Nitro by following the instructions in [How to run a full node](/node-running/how-tos/running-a-full-node#putting-it-all-together).

Reviewer 2: Idea: as this is specific for orbit chains, we could maybe add the command here and a note below saying something like "to know more about all available parameters read [How to run a full node](/node-running/how-tos/running-a-full-node#putting-it-all-together)".

Author: Yes, we need other command line to run orbit, how do you think if we point them to the orbit setup script then use that docker-compose file and tell user to change the image name.

Reviewer 2: Oh, that's right. That's better, yeah. Show them where to change the image name in the docker-compose file.

Reviewer: Love it, definitely aligned with the general principle of "avoid forcing readers to go over there and come back".

I probably wouldn't block this PR on its implementation, but we can optimize via another PR, eg by partializing the command and including in both places.

First, navigate to the [`precompiles/` directory](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/tree/master/precompiles) and create a new precompile called `ArbSys.sol`. We'll define a new method, and we'll give it an address:

```go
package precompiles

// ArbGasInfo provides insight into the cost of using the rollup.
type ArbHi struct {
	Address addr // 0x11a, for example
}

func (con *ArbHi) SayHi(c ctx, evm mech) (string, error) {
	return "hi", nil
}
```

Then, update [precompile.go](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/master/precompiles/precompile.go) to register the new precompile under the `Precompiles()` method:

```go
insert(MakePrecompile(templates.ArbHiMetaData, &ArbHi{Address: hex("11a")})) // 0x011a here is an example address
```

Navigate to [contracts/src/precompiles/](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/tree/97cfbe00ff0eea4d7f5f5f3afb01598c19ddabc4/src/precompiles) and create `ArbHi.sol` and add the required interface. Ensure that the method name on the interface matches the name of the function you introduced in the previous step, `camelCased`:

```solidity
pragma solidity >=0.4.21 <0.9.0;

/// @title Say hi.
/// @notice just for test

> /// Precompiled contract that exists in every Arbitrum chain at 0x000000000000000000000000000000000000011a.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/// Precompiled contract that exists in every Arbitrum chain at 0x000000000000000000000000000000000000011a.
```

Should this be updated to clarify that it's a custom precompiled contract?
